hey Paul hey how are you let me just
actually see if can you guys hear Paul
is he quiet he sounds quite to me say
something Paul mm I shouldn't be hello
hey hey man hey welcome back thank you
yeah I wasn't sure if I there would be a
next time but there is a next time yeah
um yeah I I mean a lot of people don't
know if there's gonna be next time we
actually don't know I don't know if
there's gonna be a next time
no I kind of got the sense you don't
know who's coming on to like an hour
before yeah that's exactly how it works
yeah and there was there was some talk
about whether I should prepare for this
and I concluded I after thinking about
it I thought that preparing for it is
probably a bad idea
right have you been doing you know
things are mostly the same yeah I can
imagine I mean oh this is what that's
what you expected on well I mean because
like you know so I you know I think the
irony here is we were talking about you
you know starting to date again or
interacting with other people and things
like that you know and so I was just
kind of thinking about you know
irrespective of whether you were
transformed and had become a new person
it's like basically impossible for you
to have a girlfriend today not because
you haven't been transformed but because
of the coronavirus and probably
everything is like here in the UK things
have been pretty active there but I
don't think that that's really been the
main reason I haven't got a girlfriend
I'm perfectly honest it might certainly
slow things down
maybe but I don't think I was on that
like fast track anyway but I don't think
you were either I think it's an
unreasonable expectation yeah yeah so
tell me about tell me about last time we
talked like what how was that for you
[Music]
I did I did reflecting right so good you
know it's definitely there's definitely
advantages to the fact that it's
recorded because I was you can watch it
as much as you want I don't I think I
did that more than like once maybe twice
probably once and then like with busy
clips thrown in there but um one thing
that occurred to me is that I was a bad
patient the last time why so let me
explain this a little bit so I honestly
coming on a second time my anxiety about
it is not anywhere near as bad as it was
the first time the last time I had a
double anxiety I had the anxiety about
coming on and publicly exposing my four
balls and potentially saying something I
guess I still have that to a lesser
degree because I mean I could say
something and I might forever regret who
knows hopefully not so that's well
lesser degree and then the thing that I
still have this time as well is like the
anxiety of getting the most out of our
limited time together because the first
time I came on I I didn't know there'd
be a second time and this is the second
time I'm coming out I don't know there's
gonna be a third time so it there's a
huge anxiety about like wanting to make
the most of every moment right because
you don't know how many of these moments
you're gonna get and it feels like very
precious time and that was part of what
[ __ ] me up so much last time coz and
someone in twitch chat actually said it
someone someone was really switched on
he said this didn't go the way this got
that that guy expected it to at all and
he's absolutely right
so part of that anxiety manifests itself
in me having like a bunch of
conversations with you before I ever met
you which is incredibly
counterproductive but it's sort of just
a product of the anxiety like I can't I
can't stop it it just hurts so in what
I'm trying to say is in my effort to try
and keep things on track I actually
ended up doing the opposite because I
didn't know what the right track even
looks like you did but I didn't and I
was trying to keep us on track and in so
doing was [ __ ] it all up so I just
hope that this time I can be a better
like patient what makes you think I have
any idea what track were supposed to go
on and what if you done then we're both
lost together yeah no but if your claim
is that you can
fix me then where am I going with that
well it was it figs I guess I was just
to help me I guess it wasn't a fix
necessarily but then then but
let's say your claim is that you can
help me I would think that you would
then house my claim isn't even that I
can't help you
wasn't it not I thought it was my claim
was that that I I think I can help you
ok the claim is also that I'm gonna try
to help you but there's a big difference
between I think I can do something I can
do something and I'm gonna try to do
something and I can do something alright
I guess the Devils in the details in no
it's it's it I mean that's not the devil
that's the essence of it right so like
there's a big difference between having
an expectation of what I'm capable of
and trying like there's a big difference
between trying and having an expectation
all right so just so that I'm clear I
think you did fine last time for that
what it's worth yeah well divided
opinion on that one I guess but in any
case I'm still gonna try to do better
this time by not trying to like
oversteer things okay I mean you
expressed frustration in in being in a
loop last time or something sure though
is it okay for me to be frustrated Carly
with the philosophical question it's not
a philosophical question I'm not asking
you frustrated intuitively you imagine
the frustration as a negative thing an
exact one that's how ask me because I
don't want to just start with our
intuitive conclusions I want us to
understand whether we want to accept
what our intuition tells us beautifully
point at all I would like us to have a
wonderful time together without the
frustration okay
that's not what I'm looking for here
okay so I don't think that I'm I do this
to have a wonderful time if I wanted to
have a wonderful time I'd make myself a
cup of tea and I'd play Jedi Knight or
Jedi fallen order that's what I do what
I want to have a wonderful time where
I'd take a bath
some eucalyptus and something else AB
some salts that I purchased at the
grocery store today and I would just
chill
so amendable time to figure it out yeah
absolutely
and so let's just think a little bit is
it okay for me to get frustrated in a
conversation with you since you're
asking me I guess it is you know the
average person doesn't doesn't even ask
that I I just assumed that if they're
frustrated and I tend to be an Imagine
I'm probably right most the time that if
someone is frustrated while talking to
me I've done a bad job of conversing
with that person or at least you know
especially if I didn't defuse it or
especially if I continue to exacerbate
it I don't know III I envy the
conversations you have with like some of
the other guests that have been on where
you tell them how much you enjoy the
conversation and I didn't get that from
you I got from you was that you were
frustrated with me at one point and that
feels bad that feels like I didn't do as
well as they did or something okay good
so let's let's understand this okay so I
mean I wish I had another screen so I
could ask to a chat some questions right
so twitch at you guys see what we're
running across right this is Paul st.
Paul we met last week right so Paul is
self judgmental Paul compares himself to
others so like let's just pay attention
to that okay let's also talk a little
bit about frustration because I think
actually this is this is fantastic man
so I think that um Paul it is part of
what I think is holding you back is your
desire to create and control the
responses of people around you okay
right so you looked at our laughs and by
the way I loved our conversation last
time okay I think I think our
conversation last time was I frustrated
for chunks of it absolutely but let's
just we're gonna talk a little bit about
what it means to be frustrated and and
why I think that that's perfectly
acceptable and in fact and we're gonna
talk so let me just make a note about
that okay we're going to talk about
frustration but I just want to point out
to you that I think that you said that
you
a thousand conversations in your head
with me before so that gets me Paul what
we're in those conversations what were
we wearing were we in your living room
or the locality this sort of nebulous I
don't exactly recall I'm trolling you
man so but I think so we should talk
about frustration but I just want to
point out to you that already as you
enter this conversation you have this
idea that you want me to react a certain
way and you're looking for a certain
response no no no no I wouldn't ever go
that far okay I guess I just had some
presuppositions about the kinds of
things we would talk about or need to
talk about in order to figure out how do
i well I guess I'm honestly fixed me
again I like that term
sure okay so what do we talk about
probably wrong I don't know but you said
you had some preset positions oh well
yeah but actually so actually that was
quite a if we don't have to talk about
that sort of thing I'd rather not
because some of those things are quite
actually quite difficult to talk about
so it seemed like we didn't really need
to the last time was actually quite
light despite the fact that I ended up
doing a joke or impression towards the
end of it the majority of the discussion
was quite light and easy yeah so what
makes okay so now I'm a little bit well
you can I just think for a second yeah
now you have me curious about the things
that are difficult to talk about well
maybe I should never have mentioned and
I'm also wondering a little I mean so
this is so when let me just figure out
how to say this and make sense
so frustration and difficulty is part of
the process of growth
and I think one of the biggest problem
that problems that people fall into is
that they try to avoid those things
right so like generally speaking human
beings try to avoid negative emotions
but it's my hypothesis and sincere
belief that like negative emotions are a
part of life and also a part of the
process of like growth and being like a
normal human being so just because you
were frustrating to me the last time we
talked doesn't mean that I wasn't happy
with the conversation like I get
frustrated with my kids all the time it
doesn't mean that I don't love them and
that I don't interact with them and that
I don't value our time together
I actually don't wish for a
frustration-free life with them as
bizarre as that sounds
because it's something strange like like
with my kids I find that the more
frustrated I get with them the more I
love them after they fall asleep it's
kind of a weird sensation but I think
that there's like you know there's
there's light and there's darkness and
there's like you know there are two
sides of a coin it is completely fine I
mean the people who I know who live
lives that are relatively pain free are
not the happiest people I know so I
think it's perfectly fine for me to get
frustrated I think the question is did
we accomplish what we set out to do and
if frustration is part of the price we
pay so be it okay well yeah so I mean we
got the actually done if you can see
this but I I put a pearl on my wall can
you see that what does it say oh they
gonna get it the pearl
what's which pearl so did we did we set
out to become what we set out to do well
I got I got the pearl to put on my wall
right mm-hmm
you can you read that now yeah I have a
very protective hopelessness absolutely
there it is there it is so we got that
out of it yeah
right and then there was also the you
know the catharsis or whatever at the
end which I still don't understand what
what that was you are giving me both so
I guess where we left up where we left
it is you told me to notice it and
awareness precedes control so you know
I'm sort of trying to keep in mind that
that have this protective hopelessness
as you call it and actually try to
notice it so that I'm you know so I went
to the speed-dating that the following
week and I well even before that even so
even the day after we just when I went
to the market to get some bread like
some girl is serving me and I'm not
trying to date her or anything I'm not
trying anything at all but ordinarily I
would tend to approach it with a sort of
very sort of glum look but actually for
some reason I just thought of something
before I even opened my mouth and I
smiled at her instead and I don't know I
just feel like I mean she Tom so this
it's kind of stupid but I just feel like
maybe that made the interaction a little
better certainly then obviously I mean
she you know she gave me the option to
have like a half bread instead of buying
buying the whole one if I just which was
actually I took her up on that offer cuz
actually I'm a bachelor I don't need a
whole hyung get through the whole damn
thing so I save a bit of money I feel
like she might have not even given me
the up that option if you thought she
was dealing with someone like you know
who was withdrawn and already wanna have
a conversation about anything yeah so
who knows you know you can't rewind time
and try it again but I just feel like in
general and and but the way that the
weird thing about is like why do I do
that why did I what I definitely didn't
something came over me and that in that
moment but I think feel like it's kind
of one-off now though it was something
that was with me like right after our
conversation that's faded to them
probably because of the speed dating
though so I had the positivity for like
the next four or five days but then I
had the speed dating and what before we
get to the speed dating tell me about
the positivity we got to talk about
smiling by the way do you smile when you
talk to people
yeah no normally no yeah so you got to
start
smiley smiling his [ __ ] Opie
like smiling is like so when I was I
read this book by Dale Carnegie called
how to win friends and influence people
it's a fantastic book and one of the
rules that he says is smile and so I
actually practiced smiling and I know it
sounds kind of silly but then I found
that you know practicing smiling is
super awkward but what I could do is
like think about something that made me
happy and then I would just let myself
smile even though it felt a little bit
weird that's really what I practiced and
then it becomes a genuine smile and I
found that ever since I started smiling
I actually do get better everything
everywhere yeah I go that I go that
sense that it would be but the thing is
I mean intuitively makes sense to but
the thing is is getting the genuine
smile is the hard part
yeah because forcing it forcing it
doesn't really it's not really
maintainable right so let's practice see
there you go good job hoping I'll be
honest meeting the quality on this court
today is not the best like I can't make
out your mouth but your eyes are just
pixels for me I don't know if it's like
that on the street but maybe maybe it's
really oh really low quality interests
like almost like oh yeah that's like a
million times better okay there we go
see dr. K it's not a Boomer after all I
learned thanks I'm glad I mentioned it
cuz I thought it'd be awkward if I
brought it up but no you fixed in that
ah see so what were you doing you
thought it would be awkward if you
brought it up what were you trying to
avoid there well a couple of things one
of those wasting time on in technical
issues when we need to be getting on
with the fixing me part yeah let's just
stay focused no no but but see see this
is the thing there's there's you know we
don't need to stay focused because
you're avoidance of the awkwardness
would have worsened your experience over
the next hour it's actually doing it
again anyway now I don't know why it's
it's reverting so okay let's try again
you feel like this is a waste of time
right well unless you know unless it
improves for the long term yeah yes like
right now yeah I'm so right now it's
crystal clear and I have
okay so let's see what yeah if it does
what it did again degrades over the next
60 seconds okay then how do you feel is
it mine is it fine the other way that's
why I'm I can see you fine okay yeah
okay
so they saw something so yeah I think
you should smile so try smiling
don't you feel embarrassed
smile come on
let's see alright so think about
something that's something genuine
specify yeah like let's let's see if
like you guys I want you guys to pay
attention so like I want you to think
about something happy what's happy okay
then just look at my face ready your
face is a good face so I like your face
I like your face too man see that's all
it takes just just okay now close your
eyes close your eyes just think about my
[ __ ] face let's see there that's
think about how silly and crazy I am oh
those are good adjectives okay what can
you think of like you have a pet not
anymore
okay well that's the sad sad face see
there's a there you go
okay good so it's beautiful right so
those are real smiles now open your eyes
so you can play around with it I know it
sounds weird but but the the key to
making a genuine smile and by the way
human beings are very good at detecting
fake smiles and so this is like what's
really hard about when you tell people
to smile in interactions is they try to
they try to force themselves to smile
which becomes a vague smile and then the
feedback that you got from other people
is weird because they like look at your
weird-ass smile and it creeps them out
and then it makes you feel even more
awkward which in turn makes it harder
for you to smile and then you have to
force your smile more
and it creeps people out of them even
more so the the key to offering a
genuine smile is to like try to find
something that you find warm or positive
and think about that for a second and
let it bubble up and let it show in your
face and if you start smiling more of
people that are gonna start smiling at
you back and then you're you know
service will improve but you'll also
feel better about yourself because we
have these tiny little circuits in our
brain that when people smile at us we
feel better about ourselves because like
when I smile at you like an idiot ready
yeah no yeah yeah it works how do you
feel at this point is getting a bit
creepy
okay I don't know we like delay at the
point a little bit okay analyzing over
analyzing it's kind of the end of it all
right it works the first few times
though okay good how do you feel when
you laugh and smile a little bit what do
you notice about yourself anything it's
kind of hard really no okay okay maybe
we can we can shift off of smiling for a
second so tell me about the positivity
the positivity of you were saying that
the positivity lasts four or five days
what what do you mean by that how do we
understand what that what that is
oh it's optimism I guess I don't know
it's just it's just I've been searching
for like the answer for some years now
at least like at least a decade yeah and
you gave me something new to try so
that's optimism because most people I
asked about it you know friends want to
help you but friends can only help you
so much they can only you know help you
based on what they know and what their
experience is like and often that's not
as helpful as they wish it was yep and
but you gave me something genuinely new
to try you didn't really give me a lot
of direction it was just like catch the
hope I mean when you say catch normally
I cup my hands like this right but
that's not what the kind that's not what
you mean by cash yeah but I don't know
how to do what you're asking me to do
you didn't really give a lot of
direction on that we kind of wrapped up
right as you as you concluded yeah with
that though it's even though I'm
optimistic about it it's kind of hard to
run with it okay so let's see if we can
correct that deficiency from last time
so when I say catch the the optimism I
remember watching some martial arts
movie where a guy would catch a fly with
chopsticks so it's like a fly buzzing
around like he's like with his his ninja
speed he would catch it with chopsticks
that's kind of what I mean so what I
want you to do is notice within yourself
when the hopelessness arises and if I
catch it what I mean is there gonna be
times where you're going to interact
like let's take the case of smiling get
the person at the checkout counter when
you bought the bread you're gonna have a
thought that like oh let me try smiling
and then there's gonna be another part
of you that says no that's just dumb
it's not gonna do anything you know what
I'm talking about
well I never thought about smiling it
just happened
I don't really know why okay no but
don't get me right off like oh I should
smile here I wasn't trying to do I just
caught that I just thought about how
hopeless something is I don't know so so
I I know I didn't even think about it
made me smile yes so I don't know what
you did but you did it you did what I
asked you to do and it's a little bit
different for every person well twist
not exactly because actually you ask me
more literally you ask me to laugh
alright I never got quite that far like
smiling is about as far as I go okay
fine I know that I necessarily know that
I would necessarily want to be walking
around laughing people why not maybe
come on don't ask me such rhetorical
questions what it's not rhetorical
because you okay come on because you'd
look insane wouldn't you so what's the
damn is not not insane
well presumably that's the adverse
effect you want people to receive you
well not like as a crazy person
whoa see there and I think lies the crux
of your problem you want people to
receive you a particular way
well so I think it's very common but
like so this goes back to like you were
you were a little bit upset I don't know
what word to use that you felt like you
frustrated me because I did get
frustrated and you wanted me to not be
frustrated right you wanted me to say
Paul I've really enjoyed this
conversation but instead I said Paul
this conversation has been frustrating
so in your mind you are trying to
control my reaction well not even that
it was even worse because it's not like
you concluded with that it's just you
were so frustrated that you just said
that you were frustrated it's it's like
it's even worse
but what's bad about me being frustrated
yeah okay no no so we sort of talked
about it but let's let's just play the
tape through to the end right so this is
exactly what we need to do I think your
problem Paul is that you have some
beliefs that you think are common-sense
or rhetorical which actually need to be
challenged because if you challenge
because that's the default programming
you have in your mind so what's wrong
with frustrating me well that what's
wrong with it is you might end up having
more sympathy for cbt guy than for me by
the end of it it did that happen no yeah
but who knows by the end of this session
right so so your fear of frustration is
that I will like us yeah look at my face
for a minute do I dislike you Paul this
moment in time I would think not okay do
you think I mean but why not you
frustrated me last time yeah so
obviously it's not excessive for you but
if I'm on the wrong path and I keep
doing the same miss making the same
mistake then I know then what is gonna
happen what do you think is gonna happen
and she'll not want to know me we're
okay where do you get that idea
I mean and and I mean this is just in
general but it's just like with people
in general and on someone away from
through your behavior I think I Drive
most people away through my behavior do
you remember like a particular a
particular time where no sort of really
really like like so we touched on this
briefly like last time like I told you
like I had a rough start in my
professional career I lost so I never
worked anywhere for like a whole year I
could I could maybe hold down a few
months at a time and then people would
just get sick of me and I would I'd be
like go what why would they get sick of
you just because they thought I had very
poor social skills is what how they
would term it they didn't usually get
very specific in ways that would
actually be genuinely useful to me as a
self development tool but that's the
gist of it and that's all I got was the
gist of it hmm so it sounds like you had
good reason to believe that your actions
and your words and your mannerisms will
drive people away yeah the only reason
that I can string more than a few months
together now is because I really tried
harder to do better at that and all must
be working yeah oh yeah I'm cognizant of
it so a lot as you guideline so I think
that you know Paul I think you have been
working at it and I think the
unfortunate thing is that people don't
teach us social skills so I've been like
I've been sort of tossing around so I've
been writing a couple of books and I was
thinking about I had this crazy idea and
started jotting some notes that I want
to write a small manual about
conversation and just how to talk to
other people you know I get a lot of
people call it common sense but a common
sense is not always know it's not common
sense right so I think no one actually
teaches us I mean I don't think it's
common sense at all
so the way that I talk to people is
actually unlearning
common sense so I think being good at
conversation is not actually doing what
most people do conversation is a skill
that you can learn and you can practice
social skills can be
and practiced and leveled up and it
sounds like you've been a little bit
more thoughtful about your social
interactions and you're noticing a
difference yeah and and yeah yeah and
despite that I still do worse than the
average person at it but yeah yeah we
can progress
so let me ask you this award there
people before you started working that
you kind of drove away through your
behavior
yeah I guess so
Mike ooh that's a tough one
like I guess even my friends to be
honest like I can you sure do you mind
sharing that with us yeah there's not
much to say about it like so in high
school I had friends but but after high
school was over we all went our separate
ways wouldn't really keep in touch so
it's kind of like kind of it's kind of
like the same in work you know you're
all colleagues but the and they'll
celebrate your arrival and they'll
celebrate your leaving but as soon as
you leave you won't hear from them mo
and again it's all just it's all just
it's almost like it's just fake you know
yeah I mean it's it it's fine well it's
what is convenient while you're just you
put in the same vicinity as each other
but it's not very real sounds like they
don't really care about you as a human
being they care about you as like the
mantle worker right yeah yeah at work
for sure but there's a big difference
though between like so I do think that
the high school friends I had were
fairly all though I don't know why that
is because obviously the end effect is
the same it's like well as soon as we're
no longer together I think they're their
differences right so in high school we
don't no one teaches us how to stay in
touch with people that we care about
while we're in high school that too is a
skill that's learned how to stay in
touch with someone that you care about
were you were you attracted to any girls
or anything like that
oh the world that weren't any so in the
area that in the area that in the area
that I grew up we have comprehensive and
grammar schools and all that means it's
like they easy to get into schools in
the heart to get in schools like so so
the grammar schools you usually have to
like pass it a bunch of extra tests and
stuff to get into and they're generally
regarded as like the better place to be
if you're like above if you're
intelligent I guess but
also single-sex schools mmm because I
guess the thinking is that you know you
can focus better on your work if you're
not distracted by the opposite sex so
it's the same for the so there was an
old guy school as an all-girls school
and their grammar schools and that miles
apart and I sometimes wonder I sometimes
wonder if that's something I should
regret because my sister didn't go to
the grammar schools my sister went to
the to the comprehensive and she grew up
with guys and girls like normal and
she's she's doing it well she's got to
she's got a second kid and she's two
years younger than me she's on a normal
track right he says she's not an insult
so you feel bad
oh that's things I mean that's exactly
it
I feel like it's a weird really weird
place it's like it's almost like I would
I regret not being able to just do it
all again or or you just like I almost
feel like I want to start from that
point like from the high school point
which is which is which is very a very
dangerous thing to say when you're 35
years old but but but you know I I don't
exactly mean it that way it's just that
when I get I regret I regret that you
can't make up for lost time like that's
not something you can do because so
everyone in everyone in my age range now
like if you're looking at people I
actually can date girls are like in
their 30s are looking to settle down
they're not looking for like someone
who's got no experience that's that's a
turn-off for them they don't it's not
how do you know that how do I know it
I guess I just picked up I don't know
exactly I guess I'm I just picked it up
from here and there so so I'm gonna say
something that is gonna be you know
could be hurtful it's not intended to be
hurtful but it is intended to be
challenging you know if you haven't
really dated much how do you know what
girls want I mean does anyone know what
girls wanna know that's that's what I've
been trying to figure out for a long
time well all I know is that it is
whatever it is it's not me that - how do
you know that
well that's evident how no one wants me
it's really evident with I feel like I
have been over a bunch of things already
like I did like a dozen speed-dating
things that did a bunch of talking about
hanging out in bars and going clubbing
and doing this and that yeah so so so I
don't know Paul they ever actually meet
you
I think they meet the person that you
think you should be I think I think I
think they meet the person that you
think that they're looking for and I
think I don't I don't know what they're
looking for though but sure you do you
just said you just told us what they're
looking for right so you have an idea of
what they're looking for and I think you
try to be that person and I think what
they're seeing is essentially fake smile
Paul instead of real smile Paul and they
find that creepy which I I mean great
fake smile Paul creeps me out even when
I smile excessively at you it creeps you
out I think this goes back to what I was
saying earlier about like you try to
avoid so much to like evoke any kind of
negative emotion and another human being
that you're like that's not you can't be
relaxed and authentic like if you walk
into this conversation you're like oh I
can't frustrate dr. K because I want him
to like me I understand why you feel
that way
and you can't make me like you and even
if you frustrate me like that's not
gonna stop me from liking you what's
gonna stop me from liking you is if you
become if you stop giving a [ __ ] and
stop trying like you can piss me off
that's okay you can make me sad you can
make me disappoint it you can you can
even make me angry with you and all of
those things I know this sounds
absolutely crazy but like just think
about this for a second like who do you
think are the people that you get the
most angry with in life who do you think
I get the most angry with in life like
you have this assumption that if people
get angry with you they're no longer
going to like you right I think you
diminish your chances yeah yeah so who
do you think I get the most angry with
in life if I had to guess I'd probably
say the people here around the most like
maybe your kids or your wife I'm
absolutely absolutely correct
the people who pissed me off to no end
are number one my wife top of the list
number two arguably higher than my wife
is my younger child older child has just
really really awesome
like sweet little child is really sweet
too she's just super hard-headed and is
defiant and doesn't accept that I am the
parent and she is the child and it
pisses me off to know it but if I guess
on my part though because I don't have
any experience of yes very good you
don't have any experience about what
people want what people don't want my
point is that if you actually look at
relationships and you think about you
ask a hundred people who pisses you off
the most I don't know what they're gonna
say but if you actually observe who they
express their anger to it's usually a
people that are closest to that
sometimes it's kind of sad because we
give the worst versions of ourselves to
the people that were closest to and we
give the best versions of ourselves to
strangers right you're going to be the
most polite to the the person at the
checkout counter whereas you'll be you
know more demanding of like people that
you live with
which is weird like shouldn't it be the
opposite but it's not so I think you've
really got to take a step back and think
a little bit about you know I think fake
smile and real smile is really a good
analogy of the way that you try it so I
the way that you interact with other
people seems to me to be based on an
impression that you have of what they
want and I think the way to find a good
partner in life is to be you and let
them pick like it's not you picking them
it's them picking you but like be
authentic about who you are I don't know
if that's true it may be if you're
trying to if you're trying to convince
me of that on a subconscious level then
I would probably find it hard to deny
but if you think I go around trying to
be a model of someone I have in my head
that's definitely case I don't think it
is quite as conscious as that but I do
think that you are very normal you are
very very concerned about the opinions
of others in your interactions you know
that's that's correct yeah and the more
concerned you are about the opinions of
others the less authentic you become
though by also be treated yeah so I and
I think this comes from this core belief
that you have that you are not likeable
by others right so like this comes back
to this decentralize you know well not
not without putting a lot of effort into
yeah yeah okay and the thing is I don't
I don't disagree that you have evidence
to support that view I think you do have
evidence to support that view I don't
think you're a dumb guy I think you're a
smart guy so I think your conclusions
that you come to have a lot of evidence
behind them and I'm telling you to run a
different experiment right I'm telling
you that whatever you did that day at
the checkout counter where you were able
to smile at someone and somehow that was
related to hopelessness you don't really
know how it works but that you decided
to just in that moment be a slightly
different person and the world received
you in a slightly different way yeah
well what's the experiment we're running
though I think I think you should try to
be you if if I'm honest has never really
been a moment it and we prior to this
where I thought I wasn't being me okay
excellent observation right so now the
case is quite a revelation so so now
yeah I mean that's why I think you're
stuck so now we want you to just so now
we come to a little bit of observation
we can talk about a couple of other
things okay so like I've got to ask you
so I don't know if this is I've got to
ask you Paul and also we should you know
ask twitch chat to like if you want to
have another kind of cathartic moment we
this is not the direction to go do you
want one of those I don't know what's up
in the script this time do we have to
climax with nope I mean I don't know how
to I don't know I don't know how to
bring those on but I'm guessing that the
more cerebral things are people don't
get to that but if you want to talk
about practicalities we can talk about
that but it's gonna be dry and it's
gonna be less entertaining and it's
gonna be more helpful so the real
challenge about twitch streaming is that
there are things that are helpful and
there are things that are entertaining
and there's some that are both and
there's some that are neither so if you
want to talk about you know the function
of your mind which is what I really
think would be helpful and then we can
do that if you want to explore like your
difficulties and stuff like that if you
want to attack those core beliefs and
try to dismantle them that's gonna be a
little bit more emotionally of a roller
coaster so we can attack your core
beliefs about like you know how you view
yourself or what we can do is give you
like we don't have to do one or the
other it's just which one we're gonna
focus on we can talk to you about how to
be more of yourself I love both to be
honest but you said you have an opinion
on which won't be more helpful which is
the first so let's do that
okay so are you your mind
I want I want to say yes even though I
presume you're coming at it from a
perspective of no okay so say what you
believe don't don't give me the right
answer give me your answer right answer
doesn't help anyone give me your answer
yeah yeah I am my mind yeah okay so like
let me ask you something um let me just
think about this for a second so if
someone has so so if someone is kind of
relaxed and enjoying themselves at a
party and if another person is super
socially anxious and thinking and
worrying and thinking lots of thoughts
about what other people think which one
of them do you think both of them are
equally themselves yes if that's that if
that's the way they are okay and let's
take the socially anxious persons for a
second and let's put them in an
environment where they're not socially
anxious so let's say that they're
playing like D and D with their friends
so in both cases they're like eight
people around but in one case it's like
close friends of theirs in another case
it's strangers so let's say eight
strangers versus eight friends and in
one case one person has a lot of social
anxiety and their their mind is thinking
lots of thoughts and in the other one
their mind is kind of just participating
in the engaging with other people in
kind of like a more simple way do you
think that both of those people are
equally the same person or do you think
that it is a leading question so do you
think that the the anxious thoughts kind
of interfere with like the them being
themselves right so I'm actually
offering a hypothesis as opposed to a
question with that statement so in both
scenarios it's the same person know that
I'm asking if like the person s is the
same in both scenarios I mean but it is
the same guy it's the same guy just two
different scenarios
are they this your ask me is the same
person this yep like let me put it this
way if you were to observe the the DND
interaction from behind like a two-way
mirror and if you were to observe the
party at interaction from behind a
two-way mirror do you think you would
get the same sense of who that person is
or would you say that one observer would
get to know one liked that person better
in one scenario as opposed to the other
I would say that you wouldn't really get
to know them fully until you observe
both okay because they're both facets of
that person okay their anxiety and also
that comes their comfort
I completely agree that you would learn
you would get a more complete picture so
but do you think that one is worth more
than the other in terms of like
understanding who that person is I mean
I can see where you're leading me you're
trying to I guess you're trying to say
that the person who's comfortable and is
open is more being themselves and you
know is is out of their shell whereas
either guy is closed up and and hiding
that but yeah do you I mean you can see
where I'm leading you absolutely but do
you do you want to go there like do you
agree with that you know this yeah sure
okay so I think part of the the reason
it's hard to agree with that is because
it implies that the anxiety is kind of
false the anxiety is very real and is a
part of that person's life but that's
not really who they are right the
anxiety kind of like anxiety is
something that layers on top of you and
keeps you from being who you are that's
my experience in my hypothesis okay
right in the same way that depressions
is not who a person is it layers on top
of them and keeps them from being
themselves anxiety layers on top of you
and keeps you from being yourself yeah
okay that makes sense right so like
I guess the bit that just doesn't isn't
so clear it's like what is yourself then
exactly so so that's the question and
that's the question we have to answer so
the first thing to understand is that we
are not our mind so our mind is just a
thinking machine and so in the same way
like Paul are you your hand I'm willing
to it I'm willing to take the whole it
didn't really occur to me until I was in
my late teens but I'm willing to admit
that my body is maybe not me I mean it's
kind of weird because like a I don't
think I'm gonna exist a very long if I
don't have my body put sure but your
body is not you right there's there's a
Eunice that transcends your body like if
you lose a hand do you stop being Paul
no right
I mean sure like that's a reality like
yours life has changed and you may
change as a result of it but Paul does
not it's not like if you lose an arm you
lose 20% to Paul like your so Paul and
in the same way it's not like if your if
your mind is if your anxiety goes away
you're still you if your anxiety is
there you're still you you're just
buried under the anxiety there's a
thought yeah this is all the brains in a
jar are also still the person right I
mean sure you know maybe right so the
point the point though is that we have
some amount of being or eunice that
transcends certainly the body and I am
hypothesizing and I'm putting forth to
you also the mind and if you want to
understand that the best thing that you
can do is meditate and and notice parts
of the mind of the whole mind all of the
mind right so this is where where
there's this idea Yogi's say that we
what we really are is consciousness and
that mind is just like the hand it's
like a piece of us but that there is
something that exists that is outside of
mental activity and if you've watched
stream or if you've meditated before you
know sometimes people get to this state
of mind actually we had a great
on Monday with someone who has tried a
lot of meditation and like just didn't
[ __ ] get it because they never
achieved and no mind state right who's
dumb oh yeah
so like if you just look at Dom's face
like he got there because he's like oh
this is really awesome I loved it
because that's what meditation is and
it's an experience of self outside of
your mind and the problem is that we
don't understand that because we don't
spend a whole lot of time outside of our
mind
in fact we spend most of our time inside
our mind and so we think that that's who
we are and so it's kind of like you know
we've spent all our life in the water so
we don't know what it is to like walk on
land and it's just we just spend things
in a particular state so then this goes
back to you and how are we gonna help
you and it's this idea that when you're
with someone you have all of these
thoughts about being a particular person
right so you don't want to make them
dislike you so you're careful with what
you say you don't want to make them this
you don't want to make them that and in
some ways that helps you right so it
improves some of your social
interactions you're more intentional and
things like that but it also is not like
truly the relaxed and real you and
sometimes through effort what we
actually get better at is being the
relaxed and real loss so I don't know
which one you're doing but so I think
the basic no not right now just I mean
when you're at work for example you said
that you've gotten battle with your
social interactions right yeah I I don't
I don't feel like I've ever been able to
I used to I used to criticize other
people for doing it because it seemed
like other people like acts at work
especially so outside of London yeah
right before I came you were about to
say you you said I used to criticize
other people for what yeah so like a lot
of people have like work personas I
remember like once jumping in the car
with the guy used to work with I used to
sit next to you and his fiancee who also
worked there at the moment they were
when we left work and go into that car
like
for that completely I've never even seen
him like this they suddenly became
themselves for the first time I even
when he hung around with me at work and
it was just him and me he still wasn't
like that it just he just became
completely not completely completely but
quite completely different person it was
shocking to me I was kind of aware it
was so it was so thick
not just from him but from everyone it
was still I could still accept it even
without being able to see the contrast
cuz I only got to see the contrast in
the people who I really obviously got
close the question is who are you at
work but I thought I was not like them
and now you can't like telling me that I
am absolutely but but not only at work
but just all the time or something like
that yeah I think you were a different
person whether you were alone or whether
you were with someone that you're you
know like speed-dating speed-dating
sounds [ __ ] awful to me I haven't
like never done it but it sounds like
there's some of the most artificial
contrived inauthentic trash that you can
possibly do and like right now Paul our
biggest problem our biggest and we have
lots of biggest problems one of the
biggest problems that I see in society
is that we're breeding a culture of
inauthenticity we're breeding into this
full of fake people yep people are
becoming more and more fake in social
medias making us more and more and more
fake social media is about showing just
one slice of the pie to the rest of the
world and so what happens is the rest of
the world looks at one the best slice of
pie that everyone else has and we see
our whole pie both the beautiful parts
and the kind of undercooked parts and
the parts that sort of collapsed in the
oven and we see everyone else's perfect
pieces of pie and we're breeding a
culture of inauthenticity we're getting
disconnected from who we really are
and I think that you your interactions
and social situations are so hell-bent
on controlling because you're afraid of
people like leaving that you try really
hard to not make them leave and then
like the the unfortunate thing is like
that's a vicious cycle I think the
reason you feel so stuck is let's just
play this through a couple of
Michael's okay so you're concerned that
people are gonna leave so you try really
hard and the harder you try what happens
to the quality of your smile the harder
you try to smile smile do it so that's
actually a real one is it yeah well if I
told you it's not no it's not okay I
thought I know I'm curious yeah I was
you know I mean this is how I get
through the job interview innit that
looked real to me do it again that
actually looks pretty real but hey this
is those pixels man okay see there's a
good one right and and and so I think I
think the more the harder you try the
generally speaking the worse the smile
looks and then what happens is it
reinforces it becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy so the harder you try the
creepier your smile looks and the more
that you drive people away which
reinforces the idea that you drive
people away which makes you try to smile
twice as hard yeah most of the most yeah
right and if you smile twice I mean I
did tell you I don't usually try to
smile I guess I do with the speed I'm
using that as an analogy right so I
think you you you be inauthentic you try
to be the person that they want you to
be or that you think they want you to be
in that in authenticity people detect
because we're good at that and they're
not actually interested in you because
they don't know you're not a real person
your fake smiling them like with your
whole being and then what happens is
like the more you drive them away the
more you double down and the harder you
have to try to fake smile the harder you
try to fake smile the worse off you you
the creepier it becomes and the more you
drive people away so this cycle happens
over and over and over again until it
becomes truth in your mind and the truth
in your mind is that no matter how hard
you try people don't like you right and
in that thing is that that truth is like
we're supported by data because you try
it a little bit and then you tried a lot
and then you tried like Hercules and
then you tried like ten Hercules --is
and no matter how hard you try the
response is always the same people do
not like you you know you know you're
probably
hundred-percent right on that because
one part so I mentioned I went to be
dating like a dozen times actually got a
date out of them
Wendy which which which so out of those
twelve of it they were kind of like
roughly in the same sort of time period
but we which if you had to number them 1
through 12 which one do you think I got
the data of one yeah it was either one
or two I don't remember but it was it
was towards the start they seemed to get
harder and harder and I think you're
that's why I say you're in the center
right yeah quite possibly true yeah
quite possibly true I'll take it so now
the question is what do we do about it
right if you try really really hard to
get people to like you and and it gets
them to not like you what I need you to
do is catch that effort catch the effort
catch yourself thinking oh if I don't do
this they will not confess and instead
ask yourself what do I want to talk to
this person about like don't try to talk
so actually did do that I actually did
do that I love speed dating I think some
of the smiles might have been a little
fake I don't know okay so tell me about
the dating let's talk about that it's
not a lot to say but can you tell me
about dating in general I mean until
until the last cover the months I hadn't
done it for like seven years I put it on
hold but so I'm not an honoree and I can
expert or anything but you just the
girls will sit down and you pick a table
around him and then every four minutes
you rotate is that what you're asking
about yeah sure and so what was it like
to go speed dating well this time I took
care of the external like you said I'd I
really dressed up like what I well I
guess in this case I was trying to be
like what I assumed they want to be like
so I you know I I don't even like
wearing like not normally I wear stupid
fancy colored shirts and stuff I mean
yeah but I wore plain because that's
what I was advised to do
you know the Blazer I just it's been 80
quid on some new shoes and nothing like
I would ever normally buy which also
recommended by a girl at work so you
know they they they I got that took some
advice and I dressed myself up in a way
that I wouldn't I was comfortable with
but would never look like before at all
sure how did you feel wearing that stuff
actually felt pretty cool I actually in
a bit also I kind of hated myself as
well because I don't because it's not
really what I wanted to look like it's
just what do you want to say and end up
looking like everyone else I like to
[ __ ] I like to look like a clown to
be honest I usually wear like ridiculous
like allowed colors like they call it
like peacocking in like but that's not
really what I'm that's not why I don't
really know why I just like clothes okay
just like standing out but also not so
that's weird like I mean I like I'm not
I'm not I'm kind of an introvert
obviously and I don't have I'm also
isolated a lot of the time really really
come into my own with his Korona things
I'm already an expert in self isolation
um well what do you mean by you liked
yeah but I mean but it's not like just
wearing bright colors just makes you it
like people could want to come and talk
to you anything it doesn't really change
anything it just changes how you
perceive probably but it doesn't why do
you like wearing bright colors I don't
know probably cause I just like bright
colors on yeah right so I think I think
right there is a difference one is you
doing what you think the world wants and
one is doing what you want yeah of
course but I but I you know so I do
think it's worth exploring I'm not
saying that just be you know don't
change as a human being and don't
explore other wardrobes like I think if
you're in the dating scene it makes
sense to like try to present your best
self right so I don't think you should
be inauthentic but I think that you
should be as polished as you can
possibly be
yeah I was I was looking pretty polished
yeah so I think that like a nice blazer
and a nice pair of shoes is great but if
you want to wear like a more flamboyant
shirt then by all means go for it
you know I don't know if you tell me to
be myself then I guess I would do but I
don't know that it wouldn't net me any
okay so hold on for a second real goons
because now can we can we acknowledge
that you're not actually being yourself
when like do you acknowledge that or do
you still think that you're being
yourself when you go out and date I
think I am I thought I was okay but at
least in when it comes to clothing it
sounds like you're not I don't even like
I don't know I don't even know the whole
reason I even wear the stupid stuff I
wear now is because it was originally a
recommendation from the very first girl
at work who actually got me fired we
talked about last night
I don't even know like if I don't have a
style I just I don't care about clothing
I don't care I wear anything I mean did
you dress up for this interview or
session or whatever we're doing did you
think about what you were wearing when
you came on here
it kind of cuz I mean it's record it
isn't it so so like I mean how do you
how comfortable do you feel with what
you're wearing I mean this this is my
dating outfit without the blazer I mean
you know I'm pretty comfortable with it
okay
I think you look sharp man I can't see
the rest of me but yeah that's all right
yeah I mean you're right I can't see the
rest of you are you are you like an
octopus from below the belt a couple of
people who commented but this guy
doesn't seem that mean if I if I start I
mean I you probably did see when I went
together the picture so you may be fat
that's okay like most like 40% of the
world is overweight a lot of them find
love like you can do some things to lose
weight and you can be more confident in
yourself absolutely but it also doesn't
make you unlovable right like people who
I do wonder whenever when it it's not so
much the case out in the suburbs but
especially in London like all the
couples you see on the street
they're all
- good-looking couples like it makes
sense you don't see a lot of fatties
with a girl of any size I mean I think
you should look closer I'm looking all
the time I think that you have a
cognitive bias that filters what you see
no because when I do see I'm like wow
that's rare okay
could be wrong yeah could be wrong I
think I think most of the most of the
couples in the worlds and in the world
are fives they're not eights they're not
not yet in the world I'm just saying I
spent specifically in London though I
feel like there's a lot of very
beautiful people here and that that's
kind of what the city attracts sure and
uh Paul how do you think or how do you
think this conversation is going is this
how is this opera news a train wreck
like last time not as bad as last time
there what do you mean by train wreck I
mean maybe maybe it like comes I don't
know maybe I mean a train right because
there's no there's no focus I don't know
what should we focus on I thought it was
terrible last time but they when I went
back and watched it again I realized
that it was it was fine like if I would
just let go a little bit more it was
because I was trying to oversteer it I
told you at the start right so I'm not
gonna be as bad as I think it is right
now so I'm kind of do you think so you
Youth her you said there were some
things that we're gonna be difficult to
talk about but that you felt like they
were important or something can you just
help me understand what you said earlier
like you would you had planned on
talking about some stuff but you thought
it was gonna be oh no I had no I don't
remember quite what you had said yeah no
is that what I said was that my anxiety
drove me to visit some darker places in
my past that I thought I would have
would be obligated to talk about in
order to fix me but obviously that's not
the case why is that not obviously the
case
no I'm saying it's not the case I know
why do you why do you say that well
because we've never had to approach
those topics and are you fixed hello you
know well this is it this is this is the
anxiety is I feel like I'm pretty like a
hundred sessions away from being fixed
and we don't have I know I don't know
how many sessions we have but I know we
don't have a hundred so do you think
that those those dark parts of your past
or part of what's holding you back
I don't yet they hold me back
it may be I never got closure on some
some things I don't like I I just don't
know what like am I like was I in the
wrong I like I'm I have fundamentally a
bad person and is that why I can't
connect with anyone yeah so I think if
that thought is floating around in your
head it's gonna interfere with your
ability to present your best self right
so the hypothesis we came up with last
time was that it's not actually that the
world doesn't I mean I don't believe
that you can't find love I've I I
believe that what's holding you back is
yourself and I I think that going
forward we've got a choice we can
continue to meander as we have been or
we can talk about that like whatever the
dark stuff is and where you got the idea
that you're you're destined to be this
way
because that sounds relevant to me but
last week you you seemed pretty
confidently that we were on the right
track and we didn't need to talk I mean
you seem pretty sure you like with you
in your convictions you seem pretty
confident that we were going in the
right you know you were handing out
pearls left and right and I thought we
were going to end up this week talking
about how to catch hopelessness and hone
that the only reason you're even aware
that there's something else that we're
not talking about is cuz I mentioned it
briefly in the in the preamble yep which
I maybe shouldn't have done I mean
because if it's important to talk about
that wouldn't you discovered it
organically like without me just
presenting it to you I got no no let me
explain something organic discovery is
based on little preambles
right that's what that is
I can't I can't I'm not a mind-reader I
can only work with what you give me yeah
it's just the last week every time I
tried to give you something you kept
shutting me down with it see you better
that you're mind doing that thing again
it seems like I was just giving you the
same [ __ ] I wasn't wasn't really helping
when I was giving you more stuff I'm
sorry for shutting you down
no I don't know it just seemed like you
all are you absolutely sure about where
this was all headed and everything that
was last foot you had yeah I know okay I
don't know what this week is I'm trying
to tell you it this week is it just
seems like you're not listening don't
tell me you own the plan I think we got
to talk about the dark stuff Oh only one
way to find out right we have why do we
have to talk about it because we tried
to not talk about it
I tried to respect your feelings and
we've made meandering for the last
half-hour to 45 minutes is it not useful
me wondering would you sure does it feel
useful to you
I mean you said you said it wouldn't
feel transformative though so I don't I
guess I'd waylaid the expect little care
so much about what I said before well if
I didn't care what you said if I'm not
taking on board the things you say was
the point in fair point okay the dirac
do you want to renege on any of those
things is uh what I think we should do
is let the last conversation be the last
conversation and for this conversation
to be this conversation right should you
learn from the last conversation
absolutely but I don't think that we
should let I mean honestly this this
feels very avoidant to me and I think
that one sign of avoidance is meandering
conversations right so so it seems like
there's something that you really do not
want to talk about and it's not my place
to bully you into talking sweetie
daddy's a little bit busy honey the
ultimate of wait it's darling can you
please can you please go outside and
close the toy
your pants are falling down
okay go put your babies to sleep in the
other bedroom they can't sleep in here
there are too many lights on so you've
got a 30-second break to figure out what
we're talking about Paul baby please go
outside daddy's working
okay can you put your babies to sleep
and then get going okay thank you what
do you think man about I mean you want
to talk about what you need to talk
about I I don't know what I need to talk
about what did you said there were some
difficult things to talk about what are
you referring to can you help close the
door honey thank you it's difficult to
talk about the few relationships I have
had with women in my life if you can
even call them that tell me about them I
mean one wee word he touched on it's
like it was getting fired from my first
job mm-hmm that was probably the start
because there's not much before that
because like I said I went to an
all-male high school mm-hmm so then yeah
that whole thing was just so it was so
ridiculously you it's almost hard to
even believe it how ridiculous so I well
I only work there for like six months
maybe seven or eight actually but but
one day my boss comes to me and he says
that don't go for lunch today you did
only did you just stay here he didn't
say anything more than that maybe you
have to rewind a little bit more than
that so obviously I met this girl at
work and we still we started going out
to lunch together like every day just it
just her and me were you attracted to
her no not at first and no and from the
outset she made it clear like she's got
a boyfriend that is just we're just
we're just friends that's fine but I
guess the long story short is like after
a month of doing this then yes I started
to become a little bit attracted to her
like after like a month which was which
was awkward for me because I already
knew that that's like that's not more
not acceptable
but I told her directly that that's how
I was how I was feeling and that I hoped
that she would push back but she didn't
and I just made it really awkward for me
so I kind of just tried to break it off
like just let's let's just stop which
she didn't want to do either so I
remember I sent her an email which so
like I say we're going out to lunch all
the time but like even when I'm supposed
to be working like half the time I'm
emailing which is emailing each other
back and forth so it like we're in in
each other's heads like a lot of the
time what do you mean by all the way huh
you said you said it made it awkward for
me because I started to have feelings
for her and and she had a boyfriend
yeah well so obviously and that's not
gonna work is it right so so I sent her
something there's a little bit what is
the feeling of awkward so it's it's not
going to work is an analytical
conclusion yeah what what is what is
awkward mean like what was your
experience of awkward
I mean I don't know what you're asking
cuz it's nothing more than I already
told you the experience is so I'm
lagging I'm literally walking out to
lunch with her one day and I'm actually
just like a few paces behind and I find
myself I find myself just gazing at her
figure like you know like on a minute
this is no good you know I wish do you
know up until that point that was not
really a problem I was just like it was
just she was just a friend like 100%
genuinely and at some point I realized
that that doesn't seem to still be the
case like in my head and so when I told
her this I expected to get a bit upset
be like oh yeah
to conclude the same thing that I didn't
look like oh well where did you say her
I pretty much just what I told you I
just I don't know actually I don't
[ __ ] remember it was fifteen years
twelve years ago something I don't
remember what I told her but I told her
something along the lines of I feel like
I'm getting like a bit attracted to
something I don't know [ __ ] knows what I
said but she the thing is she didn't
react the way I expected you just seemed
okay with that which which I didn't so I
sent it so I sent her an email which is
a little bit rude and uh in the hopes
that that would like force her to like
want to break it off so then it'll be
mutually be easier and it did work but
why did you want her to break it off I
don't know I guess because so that it
wouldn't be awkward
cuz she's got a boyfriend that's why who
she lives with who she came to this
country to be with because they met
online and so like it doesn't mean well
so yeah I didn't want to be any part of
like something weird and she was saying
stuff like she wanted to bake cakes for
me at the weekend and all this stuff I
was like wow this is a bit too far in it
cuz I mean you he's mm-hmm he's probably
asked like what are they
what are you gonna like say what the
[ __ ] is all this like out of it so well
I wanted I wanted to I wanted to be
grounded and and they seemed like things
were getting a little bit carried away
so I don't know what was getting carried
away we were or she was or something I
don't know so yeah okay
but look I don't wanna get because it's
a long story at this pace so in any case
I we've managed them what are you trying
to fast forward past why are you trying
to fast forward nothing particularly
that I'm not leaving anything out I'm
just I'm just conscientious that you
could digress forever and I wouldn't
wouldn't add anything to the story so
I'm not so concerned about the story
what I'm concerned about is how your
experience of the story right and that
that I mean you keep on using the word
awkward but like awkward is awkward is
kind of a description it's not really
awkward usually means like a conflict of
feelings sure there was a conflict of
feelings what were those feelings I
don't know man but who's getting
frustrated now it's like it's like I
like her but also I don't like the way
she's I don't know I like her that's
like and dislike I guess I don't know
what do you like
I like that she was a girl who was into
me because that's not happened really
ever since
and what do you dislike I just like that
it's fake like that it that it that is
old doesn't sound fake to me I'm sure
you dislike something about it but what
is what is fake to you about it well
they they call it leading out lead
leading you on right cuz it's not cuz
she's already she's already comfortable
she's old he's like so whatever happens
she goes home to her to a boyfriend
every evening so like that's what I
don't like about it how does that make
you feel like a [ __ ] pawn yeah like
I'm just being
I'm just being played you know how she
playing you cuz she's just using me the
stroke her ego I guess I don't [ __ ]
know yeah I don't know if it's quite
like that but I mean I what sounds
really you know Paul I think though
I'm trying to think about how to say
this
I think one of the hardest things to
deal with is when you want something
your entire life you've always wanted
something and that thing comes along but
it's like conditional so you but you you
start off from there so I think one of
the hardest things is when you want
something in life and then it comes
along but it's conditional or there's a
piece of it that you you know it's it's
kind of like window shopping like you
can see it and she's right there but
there's something in the way and that
sounds to me to be almost more painful
it seems like almost like it's kind of
weird because here's a girl who's
clearly into you you tell her she has
you have feelings for her but she never
she never said that though she made it
like I said very clear from the start
world the ground we would we're just
friends um so she she may have said what
the ground rules are but I think she
made it very clear that those are not
the ground rules because after you
confess that you were attracted to her
how did she respond yeah I know you
could you know you could interpret it
that way I mean do you think that that's
an honor I mean you're the you're the
one who interpreted you but it comes
back to this colleagues thing right like
she's so she's never so she is spending
quite a certain amount of time with me
at work pretty much all the time she can
given that our desks are apart it were
out to lunch which is the time we can be
together and in the interns yes with but
at the same time she doesn't want to
substitute any of her time with her
boyfriend to eat with me when it's no
longer convenient like she there was no
after work or anything like that and
neither of us was seeking that but I'm
just just I'm just pointing out like
yeah how does that really clear now of
course the feel of [ __ ] I mean I
actually I don't know that it does no
because I neither has wanted that you
just know it just occurred to me really
one like a month know at the time I
genuinely didn't as far as I can recall
because that that's the thing I want as
soon as I'd noticed that I was starting
to feel attracted I wanted to break it
off that was my reaction
why because I didn't see it working any
I didn't see it working any other way
I thought it I thought it'd be more like
I thought I was being a I guess because
I genuinely believed in the in the story
that we were friends
and that I was being a bad friend if I'm
attracted to it that doesn't work that's
that's what I believed mm-hmm yeah I I
think that that makes sense to me I
think that there was conflict because
you clearly had feelings for her you
were attracted to her and you also felt
like she was using you yeah
what is that what you said yes but you
were very dismissive yeah no I'm just
frustrated because I thought I thought
we were gonna get I thought I don't know
I just thought we were gonna I was gonna
lay out the story and this is like so
much more of it to tell that takes place
after all this yeah frustrating that I'm
asking you questions instead of letting
you continue to tell the story yeah a
little bit okay I apologize please
continue cuz I I'm not keeping track of
time but neither am i yeah so okay so I
successfully managed to break it off by
spice kind of like slightly insulting
her a little bit and and we stopped
seeing each other but we stopped going
out to lunch was sure away yeah yeah
exactly
and that was fine that was it was a bit
abrupt but you know for the for the
weeks that followed though it seemed to
be fine until so then we come back to
where it where I was so my boss comes to
me says don't go to lunch today and for
some reason I felt really nervous about
that and I started drinking like a lot
of water like too much water like I was
getting buzzed off it turns out my
paranoia was not misplaced though
because it was it was I couldn't even I
couldn't have imagined what's about to
happen so somewhere during the lunch
time when I would have been having lunch
he says okay
it's like it's like a multi-story
building he says like we're gonna go
down to the second floor no I have it
goes to the second floor I mean whether
it's just like a bunch of meeting rooms
right there's no it's not even a company
on that floor so we go into one of the
rooms there and they just asked me to
wait there and then this guy I've never
seen before
enters the room
I would later learned that he was from a
consulting company from so this is
before I went to London he was from a
consulting company in London so he
travelled like two hours up the country
just to be there and uh for some reason
in that moment I broke down like I just
didn't know what was going on and no one
was telling me anything and I just felt
really upset or just really nervous and
I just I almost blacked out like I was
just started crying and then and this
guy he was like he was he was excited by
that he was he was on it immediately and
he was like well what are you crying you
know what you know you know tell me what
you're feeling in this moment that kind
of like almost like it was like you do
in this situation and that that that
really that angered me even in that even
in that moment when I'm like in a really
bizarre spot just this that he would he
would like because because the people
that I actually know were not present so
the people from my company were supposed
to be there but were out of the room at
this mount it was just him and me and he
seemed like he just took advantage of
the situation to maybe do something that
he was wasn't really supposed to do you
just like poke at me a bit and that that
sort of frustrated me do you feel like
any way it can get you now no no no
there's nothing to do with that he's not
a licensed psychiatrist or anything he
was just some I don't even really know
but anyway it turned out that they were
they were putting me on suspended they
wanted to suspend me pending
investigation because they had heard
complaints from this girl that third I
think what was the allegation that was
harassing her was was what they will eat
how they termed it
and they lumped it and because that
didn't seem sufficiently lumped in some
other stuff as well so they also they
also tried to pin on me that I was
suicidal which is absolutely nonsense
but that thing barrette blew out of
proportion anymore followed where did
they get that idea and so they got that
so a couple weeks prior one of the new
HR was the only one and she was very
young
not much older than me some fresh HR
girl III did this this thing you know as
a joke I comment what the conversation
around it was but I did this motion like
attended to shoot myself in the head at
one point and she'd mentioned this to
them prior to this guy meeting me and at
the time she had no concern whatsoever
but but weeks later she mentions it to
them and they take it's super serious
like they think all these guys like
office this guy's like a you know a bit
of a nutcase so how does it feel to be
on the other end of that scrutiny to be
treated like that you you you have
nowhere to run like so let's say that I
actually was like if you're if you're in
if you're in a mental asylum it's no
good it's no good pleading your case
right it's like oh you know of course
you're or you're the one that's not
crazy right you know it's like oh no I'm
honestly I'm not mental you know if
everyone's perception of you is that
you're crazy you need to be locked up
you have no plea there's nothing you can
say to get out of that and it's very
much the same situation that I was in
it's like well if they if they all
believe the euro you're a suicide case
then it doesn't leave nothing you can
say but but they weren't sure they
weren't sure that's they just had this
one girl's word so what they ended up
doing was sending me to so they
suspended me but with pay pending this
investigation part of that investigation
was to send me to a psychiatrist for a
number of sessions I don't remember how
many it off somewhere in the country
like some miles away in the middle of
nowhere just this guy who lived in a
little cottage doing psychiatry I guess
[Music]
and his main purpose was to figure out
whether or not I was actually suicidal I
think that's although I used those
sessions to try and gain some
understanding and like some perspective
and good for you but I didn't get
anywhere I don't think I got anywhere
with it because I'm still here today
wondering about it like did I [ __ ] up
did she [ __ ] up is it my fault is it her
fault is it nobody's fault is the
company's fault who's to blame for all
this [ __ ] I still don't know it's like
this many years later I still don't know
so in in the it took two months before
they finally finally let me go and
finally gave me some [ __ ] clothes at
least tell me that there's no longer a
job for me here up until that point I
would come in occasionally to meet with
these guys again they would come up from
London then they would ask me questions
and they would try to learn stuff about
what had happened and I couldn't make
sense of it like what is this what is
this all like why make such a fuss what
was it like - do you remember what it
felt like walking into the building -
like a meet with those guys every now
and then as they kind of need another
one quote and proddin I keep in mind
that it's my first job out of university
I'm pinning everything I still feel like
if I lose my job here I'm never gonna
get I'm never gonna work again like I'm
I don't know what my future looks like
if I can't if I can't get my job back so
I go into these sessions I prepare for
them I try and prepare all the evidence
I can to answer whatever questions they
might have I would do of timelines and I
mean I don't have access to any the
information I would have had but it -
her access to my own memory but I would
try to prepare stuff to try and placate
whatever concerns they had ultimately it
didn't matter at all and I only kind of
gauged in the very last session what
actually might have been going on so I
think they did they they were just
concerned whether or not there was any
legal ramifications for - firing one or
both of us I think that's what was
actually going on it wasn't really the
case that they gave a [ __ ] about whether
they kept me on or her on or whatever it
was it was just whether
and they eventually concluded that
legislation at that time was that if you
haven't worked anywhere for a full two
years no for one year at that time it's
now two years but other time was only 12
months then you could you could like
take a court their company to tribunal
over unfair dismissal this and I hadn't
I hadn't quite made it to 12 but she had
she was just in by like a month or two
and I think so I would say they never
told it to me in those terms they let
they let a few points around that slip
during the final meeting which kind of
clued me into what was going on but I
believe that's what it was but you know
maybe that's just the story I tell
myself maybe I really did [ __ ] off
horrendously anything but it just is
it's so bizarre like I've not had an
experience like it since and I can't
even imagine like why go through that
that much [ __ ] I'm a junior so she she's
just a translator
the tenor penny the clock in a machine
just go and get another one like why go
to that much first why keep me on
payroll for two months why bring up
these people from London I still don't
know now it's insane to me that this
happened
did they really feel like they had a
moral responsibility to me and to
themselves into the company to make sure
that I wasn't actually suicidal before
letting me go because that's kind of how
they painted it but I don't I don't know
if I can really build if I can really
buy it it's just it's just insane the
whole thing I know we're not even going
into details that's just a sort of like
the high level but it is can you give me
an example of what details you're you're
not going into probably not actually
most of it's a haze now okay there's
probably nothing important so it sounds
like okay but but I really wish I really
wish I knew like whose fault everything
all of this was what would change for
you if you knew whose fault it was
if it's not my fault then I don't have
to feel bad about it do you feel bad
about it
I don't know it sounds like this is
something you've been carrying for a
long time yeah I don't know if I'm
supposed to feel bad about it because I
don't even know that we broke it like so
I broke it off for this girl and the
next thing I know I'm being hauled into
a room to try and defend my actions
which was what exactly no waiting yeah
is that how it feels it's not assuming
it's just bizarre and like the
frustrating thing is so they were
speaking to me but they were also
speaking to her but I mean I never saw
her again right they wouldn't they
obviously wouldn't let us go near each
other so I don't really know if I'm
supposed to feel bad like what if what
if I was just being played from them
from day one to day 32 day 60 like but
what if what if she was totally happy
with it how everything turned out it
seems unlikely but then I wouldn't have
to feel bad because I mean I'm the
victim in that case but what if what if
she actually genuinely so so the other
thing is sort of the way the reason they
were actually more on her side than mine
from the get-go is because of the way
the in the way the look the problem was
reported was that she didn't go to the
company and say look I don't like this
guy he's been making me feel bad or he's
harassing me or whatever the claim was
it's because she was just crying at her
desk and then someone quiet oh why are
you why are you sad and they said oh and
then she told him about it and and they
they drilled that point home to me a few
times which is why they're kind of like
on her side and it kind of does it
fending to neglect to mention that
actually was a common occurrence for she
she was very emotional and frequently
got upset about things that I have no
idea what they would be at her desk and
it just turned out that one of those
times it was my fault apparently sounds
pretty unfair to me what's unfair who
what's what's unfair to you sounds like
you got railroaded I don't know did I
feel I did I genuinely do something bad
I don't know sure I think you did
something bad it sounds like you sent a
hurtful email
rest of it I you know seems like you
didn't really do anything wrong you know
I don't know I looking back at it
probably that it is would it be it would
be just out at most but at the time I
was also wondering like probably other
things I don't know like I've been a bad
friend had been a bad person
fundamentally like it well I don't I
don't know like probably now I don't
probably now it doesn't sit with me like
that so with that with that level of
calm how does it sit with you now I
guess I guess it's just water under the
bridge on now but but also not I could
think so man I just I just want I guess
it's like I told you but I just want
closure it's like someone tell me please
someone tell me who the [ __ ] is at fault
yeah so at least I know where I you
think do you think this influences your
relationships with women now I don't
know I don't know I think it does I
think I think you've been tiring this
around for a long long time yet thought
that and the rest said that there was
like at least one other relationship
which we never we don't have time to
talk about but but yeah that was the
first one can I tell you what I see and
what I heard please
so you talk about closure you talk about
just wanting to know right you just want
to know I mean it sounds like you're
actually if you made a mistake and if
you [ __ ] up and if you're bad you can
live with that it sounds like no known
well I know I don't know how I would
take it but if I'd learned that well if
I'd if I learned that if I learned that
that is my fault I don't know what I
would do then I guess I want to hear
that it's not yeah so you're looking for
absolution and it sounds like the
uncertainty is just really tearing you
up
it sounds like torture it yeah not so
much I mean that's the thing like I
rarely think about it now thank God but
if I have to think about it then yeah it
is like that yeah so that doesn't sound
like something that you've let go so
generally speaking when we have
experiences like this we carry them with
us and they occupy a space on in our
mind and they tend to influence or
burden what we do and what I hear from
you is is that you had a relationship
where someone was very clearly
interested in you and that you felt used
you felt icky by y'all's relationship
you expressed your feelings you also
cared about her and were attracted to
her and you were hoping that she would
make it easy on you you were hoping that
sharing your feelings with her she would
say she would be kind of like she would
give you closure right she wouldn't
leave things ambiguous that she would
say yeah we have to stop but she did
this yeah and so here comes Paul who's
lonely and has never been appreciated by
a woman in his life and here comes a
woman who's in a relationship and
despite being in a relationship and
despite having all of these these
reasons for her to say no Paul she's not
saying no that makes it even doubly
difficult and now and then you don't
know I mean you keep on using the word
awkward but you don't know what to think
you don't know what to feel it feels
wrong to you but you want it you want
her
wanted to continue you want her to bring
I didn't what it's yeah I wanted to
break up Ian yeah I think there's a part
of you that wanted it to continue I
don't believe that's the case okay not
at that time I don't know that it's
worth to go down that tangent but I'll
just say this when you have a connection
with someone who you go out to lunch
with every day and you guys are emailing
back and forth every day and you find
yourself attracted to them I find it
hard to believe that there is not some
corner of your mind or your heart that
does not want that to continue or want
more from that I just find that hard to
believe
no but it reached a point where I
generally told you
it generally felt this comfortable with
it and I wanted to cut it off and I did
yeah I was just after that yeah so Paul
I think that I agree with all of those
things as well but I want you to
understand that your mind is not
black-and-white I think on balance you
decided that the relationship was not
good for you and it made you too
uncomfortable but just because it made
you too uncomfortable doesn't mean that
there isn't a part of you that enjoyed
spending time with her right yeah oops
until that point yes you're providing
okay so you're presupposing that I
genuinely wanted to come part of me
genuinely whether subconscious or
otherwise part of me genuinely wanted to
continue in spite of that and I don't
think that's the case okay without
regret I ended it okay so you decided
that you didn't want to be a part of
this relationship because of kind of
that right unclear boundaries that you
were content with friendship and that
bit of feelings but that yes I heard yes
the second one that I haven't told you
about went more the way that you're
implying which is like so there was a
second girl and it was exactly the same
[ __ ] set up she has a boyfriend but
she's talking to me every day all day
every day and this was not at work this
is slightly different and and yes I knew
she had a boyfriend from the start but I
kind of I wanted to play that [ __ ]
game this this time around I wanted to
play that [ __ ] game and I wanted
I wanted to beat him and long story
short I didn't but if you've got time to
go into all of that
I don't even even know it it's
beneficial to do so but I'm telling you
the first time I did no fine I yeah
thank you for clarifying you're more
than welcome and and but I think also
there's there's a sense of powerlessness
about this there's a sense of confusion
and bewilderment there's a sense of
getting handled process there's anger
there's frustration there's confusion
and I think the the biggest part I mean
the thing that seems to be weighing on
either most is you don't know who to
blame yeah you tell me what would it
help yeah I don't think Paul I don't
think you did anything wrong
I think but not really I think
everything that you lo put it this way I
think everything you did is forgivable I
think that you had feelings you there
was I think you had a relationship with
a woman where you guys had decided that
you were gonna be friends and that as
that relationship huh
breaking up again oh sorry I said I
think you you did everything you did
what I think was reasonable and also
forgivable so I think let me just let me
tell you the story as I heard it okay
and I'm pretty good at sniffing out when
there are cognitive biases and [ __ ]
and stories so you know take that let me
take that for what you had you have a
bias because you only hear my side but
yes no no but I mean I hear bias I hear
only one side of stories all the time
from people and I still can sniff out
[ __ ] pretty well that's my pocket
right so when an alcoholic comes into my
office and says I haven't been drinking
I'm pretty good at sniffing that out so
here's what I hear you went to work you
had a friend you guys had a connection
it was purely platonic and you guys
really enjoyed spending time with each
other you guys spent time with each
other she had made it very clear to you
that she was only interested in
friendship
and then something happened between the
two of you which is that you started to
get attracted to her and chances are she
got attracted to you too otherwise you
know things would not have perceived
can't comment on her end yeah well but
yeah but I think we can write so I think
that that those kinds of feelings and
stuff evolve all the time when people
spend a lot of time together you guys
really it sounds like you guys had a
connection and then you noticed that you
were starting to feel attracted to her
and out of out of actually your duty
towards your friendship you shared that
with her because you felt like your
relationship which was changing and
almost out of respect I mean I think
it's a reasonable thing for friends to
do if they start to have feelings of
attraction because it gives you a chance
to sort of figure out how you guys are
gonna move forward as friends and and
whether there's something worth
exploring or not exploring and you were
expecting her to pull back and she did
it and then it also sounds like she kind
of was was sending you mixed signals
because on the one hand she's you guys
are going to lunch everyday on the other
hand you're emailing back and forth and
then she tells you she wants to start
baking cakes and then I think you
started to feel guilty you started to
feel like this isn't right and I'm not
so sure what you wanted or you didn't
want but it just didn't feel good to you
anymore so you've tried to push her away
and lo and behold she's actually pretty
into you and values your relationship
and unclear of what how she feels about
you
but there are also a lot of questionable
things about her background too so a lot
of times people who meet online and move
countries are not actually that
emotionally invested in the person that
they move in with or when they move it
turns out to be like a different kind of
relationship than being like a thousand
miles away so I know a lot of online
relationships that fall apart because
they meet someone else who's local I've
heard that story a thousand times coming
back to you and what you're at fault for
and then I think you start to feel
uncomfortable and you don't really know
how to handle it and you want the
relationship to end and you've tried to
tell her things that would drive her
away and she doesn't get driven away she
doesn't get driven away and she doesn't
get driven away and so then you send her
a mean email because that's sometimes
what you have to do to push people away
now I do I think you could have done
a better job with communicating things
or setting limits with her absolutely do
I think that you should have sent an
email absolutely not do I think it's
forgivable given the circumstances
absolutely right so life is not about
not making mistakes it's about you know
like making mistakes that are reasonable
given the circumstances because we're
not all perfect human beings and then
the real [ __ ] show starts you get
railroaded you get called into room it's
not even your boss it's some guy who's
driven two hours up I don't even know
how you feel I I mean it sounds like you
feel powerless you feel confused you
feel persecuted you feel like it's
unfair I mean that's what I heard I
heard venom in your voice I heard anger
I heard I heard a sense of injustice
about the way that you were treated yeah
it didn't matter what at the time I
believed that but all this work in
preparation I might do to vindicate
myself would actually have approached
like I like I felt like I felt like it
was a fair trial but it wasn't yeah I
also I also hear futility I also hear
hopelessness right that you had hope and
that hope was was smashed and I think
you carry this with you I think you
carry it with you today have you learned
how to suppress it absolutely but
there's just I mean you know I could see
the emotion in your face I'm sure
everyone who's watching could see the
emotion in your face I think we can see
the dejection and despair in your face
now and you just want to be free of it
you want to know whose fault it was I
don't think it was your fault I think
actually your conception of it was
pretty good I think sometimes women who
were hurt say things I think not just
women people who were hurt to say things
and I think that you know she someone
caught her at a time where she said some
stuff and then this HR person noticed
like this whole thing and so like like
the pieces of the puzzle start got put
together and it's not even that those
pieces of the puzzle it's not even the
likelihood that those pieces connect in
a certain way
the corporation doesn't care about what
happened they cared about how things
could look because that's how
corporations think right then don't
actually care about the truth they think
about you know can we get sued for this
could someone make an argument for
getting sued and the answer is
absolutely yes in their case and I think
they played their game which is that
they protect themselves and they don't
want to get sued and they'll railroad an
employer to in the process if they need
to I think if anyone is to blame it's
actually your boss and your company for
the way that they handled it I would
like to think so
I've never seen anything like it since
it seems absolutely bizarre yeah and and
I think the challenge here Paul is that
I think a piece of this lingers with you
and I think a piece of it swims around
in the back of your mind and changes the
way that you view relationships like not
in such a grain like I don't think it's
as simple as like that's the reason you
don't have a girlfriend now I think
these kinds of experiences happen all
the time but is it related though I
think so I think it's incredibly hurtful
was this was this was this whole
exposition setting the grounds for
becoming an NSL fifteen years later
mm-hmm
setting the grounds I don't think it's
quite as that tied together and cause
and effect but I think it could account
for 20% of it right when I think about
Ruth when I think about like the person
who would have walked out of that door I
can think about that person would have
difficulty engaging with other women and
that's not because you're an insole that
speak us the human brain is designed to
be pain averse so if we look at the
circuits of our brain that are the
strongest at learning they're very close
to pain so if you touch a hot stove once
it's very very hard to touch it again so
the biggest teacher that we have is pain
and this sounds like an incredibly
painful experience to you and you've
been [ __ ] avoiding it ever since and
I can't imagine what kind of other
things you've avoided in terms of
opportunities relationship stuff like
that because of your fear of getting
hurt
well it's not like I'm just slapping
them in the way left and right I can
tell you that yeah and I think that's
that's exactly what you want I think
that you you try to create situations
where you don't want you don't want to
risk having to slap a woman away and you
don't want to risk having a woman like
in engage in a relationship with you
that could fall apart or end like this
again
so is that true it was definitely true
closer to the time I don't even know
where I sit with it now yeah so like I'm
trying to get back in there despite
everything that's happened and yet
somehow it doesn't so so I think I think
last time our pearl was that
hopelessness is a protective mechanism
and I think hopelessness is the defense
against something like this because if
there's no possibility of a relationship
there's no rodeo that you just went
through yeah but but you're making it
sound like again like I'm just turning
away opportunities though I mean oh but
actually don't come anymore yeah I don't
I don't mean to say that you're turning
away opportunities what I mean to say is
that I find it hard to believe that this
could not have influenced the next five
years which in turn oh it definitely did
yeah definitely which in the turn is
going to have its own impact on the five
years after that which in turn is going
to have its own impact on the five years
after that but how is it in fact if it
affected me today I don't know well so
what I see is a lot of suppressed
emotion and my my experience as a
clinician is that when there's
suppressed emotion that emotion leaks
and it affects people in unexpected ways
and that most of the time they're not
aware of it but if it's leaking you
should be able to see it right yeah so I
think your hopelessness is a sign of the
leaking because that hopelessness is a
protective mechanism comes from
somewhere right and I think it's
reinforced by all kinds of other logical
things like the fact that you've tried
to date people over and over and over
again and it hasn't worked
but I do think so let me put it this way
Paul how does it affect you today I
think you still carry the burden and I
think it's hard to feel free when you
carry that burden and I think it's hard
to fully engage in a relationship when
you carry a burden and that the purest
and happiest relationships happen with
people who feel unburdened or share
those burdens it weighs on you so how do
I take it off I mean I guess it helps to
know that you don't think it I mean I
think Norman tells me that you don't
have to you still are guilty but you
started to take it off by expressing
some of these emotions so you've opened
up that bottle and you're venting some
of that emotion and so the weight of it
becomes less I think it's not the first
time I've told this story though but I'd
never really makes me feel better cuz
the person I tell it to never gives me
closure either you're the first person
to say that I don't have to feel guilty
about it yeah I don't I don't think you
need to and I think I think it's the
difference I think I well let me let me
clarify okay Paul I think that it's fine
to feel guilty I think you have you have
put in the time that you need to with
that guilt and I think it's time to let
that guilt go okay can I just do that
yeah just like I mean it's hard but just
let it go I mean I I think I think you
you tell yourself at this point of your
life that like you know chances are you
didn't [ __ ] up as I mean I don't think
you [ __ ] up that bad I think really
the only thing that you did was push her
in a way that was immature which i think
is forgivable and I think that if you
felt guilty so be it because maybe you
did something wrong but then you also
have to forgive yourself like the way
that you let guilt go is by forgiving
yourself and and you kind of think a
little bit about the person that you
were and you think about how experienced
in experience you were and you think
about you know this is your first job
out of college and you had been to an
all-boys school and you
and had a lot of experience with women
and so you're bound to make mistakes and
then you kind of you know it does feel a
little bit hollow to have someone else
that you know yeah you know what I just
realized and I don't know maybe you're
gonna like do a Freudian clap or
something but like [ __ ] I probably
never gonna be like satisfied unless
sheathing is me right and that that can
never happen
yep
I think what you've been looking for is
forgiveness from her what you're really
looking for is closure from her because
I think it's incredibly painful to have
a relationship like that and then like
not like get taken down to the second
floor with some guy from London drives
up two hours to see you and you never
get a chance to see her yeah I mean I
can't even I can't even say I'm I'm
sorry it doesn't like it's just you just
go and of course they're not gonna give
you that opportunity because they think
you're [ __ ] crazy
but putting that aside she put didn't
want to anyway it's just that it just
sucks you can't just have it you can't
just you kind of reconcile your
differences and didn't say goodbye you
know it sounds stupid but like why does
it even matter especially now like after
all this time but don't invalidate your
feelings it does suck
right so there is there is sorrow and
sadness and unfairness in the world and
we can't there are some things that we
can't fix and and that's unfortunately
that the way the world is and just
because the world is that way I think it
it we carry that burden for a time and
then it's time to let it go you need to
forgive yourself all you need to cut
yourself some slack and also let
yourself hope again that something very
bad happened to you and it is unfair you
didn't get closure and the last thing
that you need to have is compassion
towards yourself for the circumstances
that you've been given even if you can't
get forgiveness from from her I'm not
sure that you get compassion from
yourself
you were what in your 20s at that time
so they're in the early 20s
yeah so like what you need is compassion
from 35 year old Paul towards early 20s
fall you're older you're wiser and go
back and tell that dude that it's not
his fault
he did the best that he could and now
it's time to pick yourself up them up
off the mat and give yourself a shot
again there you go good
Sony's quite hard to breathe let it out
just wanted to come out for a long time
you've been holding it for a long time
so just let it out man it's almost like
I'm back in the [ __ ] room again
absent arrogation room this is the some
scar you know some scars yeah it is I
wouldn't know when I first read you
explain to reckful what some scar was
and I was on the other side of the
screen I immediately realized that that
was the perfect term to describe exactly
this and now you know what it is
for me too
I laughed at the start though because
you said something like yeah 35 grope
but we'll go back and figure I actually
thought about what I would actually say
what would you say well I don't know I
would probably it it's in my nature to
be a bit of a troll okay like I've been
I've been trolling since before the term
was even coined like it wasn't even
called anything before so you're the
oats the OG the OT okay [ __ ] yeah I'm
the oats
so I part of me would like be like so so
the thing is like so I wanted to break
it off right well I would probably like
troll myself a little bit and say well
like no don't do that like go and kick
this other guy's ass or something I like
but also not so the reason I laughed is
because it was a conflict I didn't
actually laugh at that laughter the fact
that actually that I realized that
actually this girl isn't even that
[ __ ] good anyway but she was no she
was probably no good for me like it was
it was it was fine it was fun when we
were young but like like touching the
beef like she's a [ __ ] nut job anyway
like she like I told you she was crying
that that's well I don't even know what
the [ __ ] about that just like random
stuff from what I heard I didn't know
her that well to even know what it was
but but she had some problems whatever
the [ __ ] they were it was I'm sure she
doing fine now
it's mr. hopes over like I know if she
was really that good for me anyway
so I would probably be like no just get
the [ __ ] out of there so it's kind of
weird to be even hung up about it at all
now
but I definitely was so two things
follow man we're probably gonna have to
wrap up I'll give you the last word the
first is last time we talked about
laughing in its face remember that yeah
so I'd say if you can learn how to laugh
in its face so be it sometimes humor is
all we have left when the world becomes
a terrible terrible place and medical
humor is some of the most morbid humor
that you can get because we deal with a
lot of terrible things and so there's a
part of me that says that when we're
talking about authenticity and all that
other [ __ ] that we were talking about
for the first half hour 45 minutes I
think I think Paul if you want to find a
good relationship it needs to be you
with a colored shirt who also shows your
inner troll just a little bit and it's
gonna be the girl who can appreciate
that it was gonna be the right one for
you and I think instead of trying to be
what they want you to be be that person
the last thing I know you can disagree
with that or they're all kinds of no I
thought I disagree it's just it's like
not really practical well so like so so
what women are in my life right now was
the colleagues at work who were just
colleagues at work and this is speed
dates and you can really I mean it's
pretty hard to engineer like a natural
controlling situation informal yeah but
I mean so that what I'm saying is like
you know when you if it feels right and
it feels natural then do it and if it
doesn't you can't force it right that's
the forcible smile I'm just saying that
when it comes to the authentic you let
you know that's a part of it and then
the last thing is you keep on asking
what do I do about it and it's kind of
silly that I've been holding on to it
you do whatever you just did because
whatever you just did is exactly what
you need to do right you've been holding
on to this for such a long time and when
you think about thirty five-year-old
you're going back and it's kind of like
saying hey man just let it go man she's
not even like she's not worth holding
onto that hurt for and something about
that alchemical process is
how you get unburdened and how you move
forward mm-hmm I almost feel like I'm
already over it I don't know if I
actually am because there's a little bit
too much in one go - probably process
like that but yep so it's how it works
so I think I think the reason that you
so my experience has been that some
scars are like dominoes so one injury
get baguettes another injury baguettes
another injury and they kind of build up
but then also once you knock the first
one down something has fundamentally
changed but I still don't know that I'm
like over the second one there's more
work to be done
maybe maybe no but it's good that you're
able to laugh and also that you're able
to notice that you're not over the
second I would trust your instinct in
that moment that you're over something
here but there's more work to be done
and that's also how it works man any
thoughts or questions before we wrap up
so that's the folks are crying every
stream then hopefully not but you know I
I wouldn't I don't really care about no
crying but I do care about you facing
the things that you need to face and
growing past them and it just so happens
that most of the things most of the
growth that people need to do has
involves like- some scars like if you
come on and you're an insult like I
think there may be tears somewhere in
there right you know how do you feel
physically
[Music]
all right just know I'm all right hmm
impressive it's the master of
suppressing emotions young
there's the Ooty no that's for real
I think okay I thought it was funny I
mean it's probably true too but also
funny obviously my emotions would not
suppress a moment ago but like you you
also learned quick recovery I guess I
don't know morphing yeah
but also I see I was kind of trying to
suppress him in the moment it's just a
bit embarrassing I guess but maybe if we
were just in a room you and me and it
wasn't like a small fraction of the
internet watching as well and then I
would feel I just [ __ ] go for it hit
the wall I don't know Billy and I don't
really want to do that
I'm cameras I think you did that anyway
I don't I don't think I I don't think no
I was really trying to I was really
trying to stop myself yeah people do
that when I mean so what would happen in
different circumstances I think is
irrelevant so Paul I think I think we
did a good job today
I'm glad you chose to talk about things
that were difficult I think we gave it a
fair shot at like talking about things
that weren't difficult and maybe learn
something maybe you didn't maybe it was
helpful maybe it wasn't but this is
where you know my this is the scent that
I caught and I'm I'm glad you went there
because I think it's where you needed to
go it's where I thought from the start
that we needed to go but then right I
second-guess myself after the first
session mm-hmm do you think that's
relevant we do don't you could you said
you said like it is at least 20% of
something yeah but I still don't have a
curl to put on my wall from this session
I don't think ya do I
nope sorry I've got one oh I don't need
to like wallpaper it the next pearl you
have to find on your own oh I did I did
the one last time now it's your turn
okay
take care of ball good luck all right
dog okay
howdy guys I